Previously on from...
We need to figure out
where you're gonna live from now on.
I don't think she's a bad person.
If it's all right. she would like to live here.
- With you.
- Okay. Sure.
Abby! Stop! No. no!
Hey. Abbs. I could really use some help.
No! Hey! Hey!
Elgin. I don't want to hate you.
This place took advantage of both of us.
There's something I need your help with.
I think we're gonna need a little bit more.
So. you just... walk inside?
Then I find my dad.
Ethan called it story walking.
He learned about it
from one of his books.
and all his books are
under the house now.
Shit!
I see the bag.
What are the titles?
"Grand gooligog." "the cromenockle."
Jade. tell me you got something.
The best thing I can do is just find a way
to unlock whatever's locked in here.
Henry said Miranda
started seeing this place
after an acid trip they took.
If it worked for her. it stands
to reason it could work for me.
The night we arrived
here. you had a dream.
- Lake of tears?
- It's here.
And I need you to find it.
- Maybe Jade can help.
- Jade?
The lake of what?
Why were you meditating?
Trying to remember
something that I used to know.
Hey. Victor. we got a lake to find.
Victor!
Hey. talk to me. son.
I told myself it wasn't real.
My wife. Miranda. she
painted things she saw here.
One of those paintings
was of a man in a yellow suit.
You're telling me this
could be the same suit?
You don't see a lot of
people walking around here
in a canary yellow suit.
Well. Victor obviously recognized it.
He didn't just recognize it.
I watched a grown man wet his pants.
My question is. if the suit's here.
then where's the guy who wore it?
Long gone. maybe.
For all we know. the
suit might have been
laying out there in the forest for years.
This close to town?
It's not like it's easy to miss.
Then. maybe those
things that come out at night
left it there to mess with our heads.
- Come on.
- The point is. we don't know.
The best thing we can do
right now is talk to Victor.
I'll... I'll do it. I'll talk to him.
No. maybe we should
all... I... I will talk to my son.
Alone.
Okay.
- If there's nothing else. I'll...
- Yeah. no. - Okay.
The young boy. the one dressed in white.
he said to us that we're
running out of time.
For 40 years.
that boy was nothing but
a painting in my basement.
That suit. this place.
all just paintings in the
basement. And now...
I think there was a part of me
that was still trying to
pretend any of this was normal.
Does he know? About his wife?
About you?
We don't even know if it's real.
It's real.
No. No. Tabitha's right.
We need to be pretty goddamn sure.
Have you said anything to Fatima?
Nah. she's dealing with enough as is.
All right. then everyone who
knows is standing in this room.
Let's keep it that way
for now. Understood?
Yeah.
The man in the yellow suit.
if Miranda was able to paint him.
that means. somewhere in your mind.
there might be an answer to who he is.
If this is about your
fucking mushrooms...
Boyd. are you seriously okay
with him taking magic mushrooms
that he found in a haunted forest?
No. Donna. I'm not.
I'm also not okay with
waking up every morning
and counting how many
new bodies there are.
Are you okay with that?
We're losing. Okay?
I'm not gonna say that out there.
but in here. whatever
game this is. we are losing.
And then that freaky
little kid in white pops up
and tells Tabitha that
we're running out of time
and we still don't know
the goddamn rules.
If there are answers in
his head. any answers.
we need to get them out. Okay?
I'll be there with him.
Anything goes wrong. I'm right there.
Well. good luck with that.
Ellis. there are people waiting
to go up to the settlement to gather food.
People still need to eat.
And you. you do this.
you go on this little trip.
you know you may not come back. right?
Yeah.
Come on. Let's go.
Boyd. would you mind
giving us a minute. please?
What? Yeah. Yes. of course.
Of course. Yeah.
Come in.
I hope I didn't wake you.
I didn't sleep much.
Neither did I. at first.
I... I was... Hoping we could talk.
Okay.
I assume... Kenny told you about me?
About what I did?
Yeah.
So. why would you want you live here?
Because when I met
you. I knew you were kind.
I know what you did was terrible.
but my father used to always say
that only good people are tortured
by the bad things that they've done.
Plus. I figured here I'd get my own room.
I'll go make us breakfast.
I'll be right down.
No. no. no. no. no! No! Please!
No!
- Sara?
- No!
No. no. no. please!
What's happened?
Why were you in the woods with Ethan?
You should really ask Ethan about that.
I'm asking you.
Did he tell you he saw Jim in the forest?
Yeah.
Well. apparently. Jim told him
that he had to find the lake of tears.
Does that sound familiar?
That's not... that's not real.
No. it's not. But it is to him.
I'm not exactly the best person
to be giving advice
about... Well. anything really.
but I do know... Some kids
just feel more comfortable
living in their imagination. Right?
It's where they go when
the world gets scary.
'Cause. sometimes.
believing in impossible things.
it... helps with the...
It just helps.
I'm sorry about what I said in the barn.
Don't be.
You weren't wrong.
Be careful with those.
Everything all right?
If you can tell me the last
time everything was all right.
you win a cookie.
Are you ready for this?
Fuck no.
Ethan?
Dad?
Can you hear me?
Please. answer me.
Dad.
Yeah?
Why didn't you tell me
about the lake of tears?
Why did you go to Jade and
Victor and not come to me?
Ethan.
I need you to talk to me. please.
I didn't tell you because I
knew you wouldn't believe me.
He told me I need to find it.
He told me.
And when I find it.
that'll prove it was real.
He's not gone. He's still here.
Okay. then.
I need you to pack a bag.
Why?
We're going on a trip.
You find anything?
No. they're kids' books. Julie.
If you don't wanna help
me. I can do this on my own.
I'm not saying that.
I just...
What?
Storywalker Fred.
Who?
Who's that?
He's the distant cousin
of the grand gooligog.
Here we are.
"Storywalker Fred was
an elevator repairman
who spent his weekends
story walking as he pleased
through all the wondrous tales
and greatest adventures of our time."
Julie?
Hide the books.
Yeah. We're in here!
I need you to pack your bag.
We're going out to the settlement.
Why?
Ethan's convinced he
needs to find that lake of tears.
The magic lake he used to talk about?
Yeah.
He said he saw your father.
and then your dad asked him to find it.
He... he saw him?
- What does that mean?
- I don't know.
I think he's grieving.
What I do know is
that. if I try to stop him.
then he'll sneak out
and look for it by himself.
This way. I can keep him safe.
Okay.
So. what do you need me for?
Well. you're not staying here alone.
I'm not gonna be
alone. I'll be with Randall.
- Randall.
- Mom. it's not like that.
It's really not.
I'll stay at the clinic. Kristi
and marielle are there.
Can I talk to you for a minute?
- Mom!
- It's okay.
Look. first of all. I just wanna say sorry...
no. no. no. Stop talking. Just listen.
Okay.
I don't know you. Randall.
I don't know who you
are or what you want.
Julie trusts you.
She feels safe around you.
and she needs that right now.
So. I need you to look
me in the eye and tell me
you understand what I will do to you
if you ever do anything
to break that trust.
I understand.
Okay. good.
Mom.
Honey.
What?
- I love you.
- And I love you. too.
- Promise me you'll be okay.
- I promise.
Yeah.
I'll be back tomorrow.
This is your water.
Look. I don't need to go.
Ellis. it's your turn.
Yeah. but I'm sure Donna can
find someone to take my place.
I'm fine.
And Donna needs people out there
that she knows she can rely on.
Honey. I'm okay. I promise.
Yeah.
Okay.
Tommy is responsible
for the cans on the door.
Ella and Jordan will check the windows.
and then about 20 minutes
or so before sundown...
do a headcount. I know. I got it.
Just. keep an eye on
Fatima. with Ellis gone.
Yeah. I got it.
Yup.
- Donna?
- Okay.
Do you have room for two more?
More the merrier.
Okay. let's. move it out.
Come on.
Let's go!
How's this?
This is. perfect. Thank you. Elgin.
I can help you with the rest.
if you tell me what this is for.
The rest I have to do myself.
You should go now.
Okay.
Victor. Hey.
Three. four... What are you doing?
I have to see if the trees have moved.
Why... why would the trees be moving?
Because everything is changing.
and first it was snowing.
and now everything's green.
and everything is just moving too fast.
And I-I used to measure
all the time. and...
and then I haven't been paying attention.
and I should have been paying attention.
I should have been paying attention.
Measure...
Can I help?
See if the trees are moving?
Okay.
Okay. what do I do?
You start with this leg like this.
- One.
Two.
What the fuck?
Hi.
You know what they used
to call me in the army. right?
- Mr. Fish and loaves!
- That's right!
Hi.
Boyd!
What's going on?
Is Kenny in this room right now?
Wha...?
Yes.
Never mind then.
Is he on...?
Mushrooms he found in the woods.
Right.
You need something?
It's Fatima.
I think maybe you should
come up to the colony house.
I should go.
No. Stay?
Please.
Okay.
You remember this is
the first place I met you.
It's funny how things change.
Do you still see her?
The woman in the kimono?
No.
Do you think it's because
you did what she asked.
so. now. she leaves you alone?
Sara. is something going on?
I thought for a while
that the voices were leaving me alone.
I thought they were done with me.
but turns out... They're not.
And what do they want you to do?
It doesn't make any sense.
They said they want
me to go to the diner.
pour a glass of water from the pitcher...
Take a sip. and then pour it back in.
And then what?
That's it.
So. how's... how's that
gonna hurt anyone?
I don't know.
But there's always a consequence.
Sara. it's just water.
- But I'll have drank from it.
- So?
Whatever is wrong with me.
what if it's like an infection?
What if I pass it on to someone else
and then the voices start torturing them?
I don't want anyone
to have to live like this.
Okay.
What if you just don't do it?
They said. if I don't do it by midday.
then something bad will happen
to someone that I care about.
and it will keep happening until I do it.
How many steps?
23?
Victor. I want to talk to you
about what happened yesterday.
Nothing happened yesterday.
Victor. can we...
no. dad. you can't... you
can't just stop in the middle.
'cause you'll... you'll mess everything up.
I'm sorry. but I need you to talk to me.
Whatever it was.
whatever you're afraid
of. you can tell me.
Well. it's... I think the tree...
I think they moved a little.
You said that you told
yourself it wasn't real.
Did you mean the yellow suit?
C-Can you tell me about
the man who wore it?
Did... was he someone
that hurt... hurt you?
Look. Victor. please. whatever it is.
we'll face it together. You can tell me.
Victor. what... Victor!
Come. Come with me and I'll show you.
Hey. Just sit down
and don't go anywhere.
Come on.
Come in.
I told Kenny not to bother you.
Yeah.
Well. he...
It's a lotta dirt.
Yeah.
You wanna tell me what's going on?
I'm making a monster.
Here we go. "The grand gooligog
asks Fred about story walking.
'How do you choose a point
in the story you wish to see?'"
and?
"Fred replied. 'you have
to create a bookmark.'
Fred discovered that
by leaving a bookmark
somewhere in the story. he could choose
whatever chapter he wished to visit."
We have to make a bookmark.
Julie. that doesn't make any sense.
I know what you're gonna say.
This is a kid's book and it's crazy.
That's 'cause it is.
What if that's not the
right way to look at this?
What if story walking existed here first?
The fuck you talking about?
Everything here is impossible. Okay?
But it's also real.
We're here. right now.
in this impossible place.
What if all of the crazy
shit that happens here.
has been... like. seeping out into...
My mom. My mom had
nightmares about this place
when she was a little
girl. She didn't realize
that she was dreaming about
it then. but she was. Okay?
Who knows how many
other kids or adults
or fucking children's book authors
have had dreams about
this place without knowing it?
And what if this author had a dream
about someone like
me doing what I can do.
he woke up. wrote it down
and called it story walking?
But there's literally thousands of books
that have stories and rules
about traveling through time.
No. no!
Why would this book.
the one with fucking
Fred the story walker.
why would this book be the
one that explains anything?
Because. out of all those books.
this is the one my brother had
with him when we came here.
Okay? And maybe
that means something.
Maybe it's fate. I... Fate.
Randall. if I'm right.
this could actually be
an instruction manual
on how to save my
dad. and it's all I have.
So. I'm gonna try.
whether you help me or not.
So. what kind of bookmark do we need?
When you say 'monster'...?
Boyd. I know you're worried about me.
but you don't have to be.
Yeah. yeah. yeah. I hear you saying that.
The problem is. Fatima.
this says something else.
Have you told Ellis what
you're doing in here?
I wasn't trying to hide it from him.
He... he has been so worried lately.
I figured once he was
back from the food run.
once he could see what I was doing.
it would be easier to explain.
Okay. great.
Explain it to me?
Where I grew up. beliefs were very rigid.
They defined you.
But my dad told stories
of all the different faiths.
It used to drive my mother crazy
because she understood
how dangerous it was.
But he would just smile.
He'd say. "Fatima. they have it wrong.
They all think their road is the only way.
Don't they understand that
all roads lead to the divine?
They simply take
different paths to get there."
Fatima... Of all the
stories my father would tell.
all the fables and myths...
there's one story I've been
thinking a lot about lately.
Do you know what a golem is. Boyd?
Well?
She's...
She's making a golem.
A what?
It's a part of a religious folklore.
It's a giant made of Clay.
It protects people. It's a champion.
She said it's a symbol of hope.
Maybe. for now. we
just give her some space.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
That's your solution. is...
Give her some space?
She's not hurting anybody.
That's not the point.
We have both seen
this place turn people.
change them little by little. until. one day.
we turn around and...
And the person that...
We knew is... is gone.
Boyd. that person up there
is not the Fatima that I know.
And I think if you're
being honest with yourself.
that's not the Fatima you know either.
Can I ask you something?
Yeah.
What the hell are you doing out here?
I don't know.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I just keep walking around
with this knot of terror inside me
that feels like it's going to explode.
And the whole time.
there's this question and
it keeps ringing in my mind.
What am I supposed to do now?
Jim's gone. and I keep
looking for him. but he's gone.
I have memories in my head
that belong to other people.
Memories that might have
answers. but I'm terrified
of what it'll cost if...
if I go too far or if I remember too much.
But if I don't...
I know I'm failing.
What's gonna happen
when Ethan learns
that the lake of tears is not real?
How am I gonna deal with that?
Hey. everyone?
Let's just take a little break. okay?
You good?
Yeah. we're fine. Just.
need a little breather.
Okay.
Let's sit down.
I don't know how to do this alone.
You are not alone.
People keep saying that.
Well. maybe you should fucking listen.
I don't want to find
another one of those notes
like the one on my nightstand.
You are not going to
put me in the position
of having to explain to your kids
why I'm still alive and you're not.
- Donna. I'm...
- no.
You and those kids
are as much my family as
any family I have ever had.
So. from now on.
if anyone is going to risk their lives
to do something stupid...
That person is gonna be me and not you.
We clear on that?
I am asking. are we clear on that?
- We're clear.
- Okay.
Mom! Come look at this!
Come on.
Looks like a broken wing.
Must have fallen from
a nest or something.
We never see anything here but crows.
We have to take him with us.
Ethan...
Mom. this is a sign.
If the lake at the settlement
really is the lake of tears. it'll fix him.
That's how we'll know.
We have to take him with us.
I can't imagine what this is like for her.
At least when I got here.
I found you. you know?
I mean. she lost the
only person she had here.
Yeah.
I can't tell if she's handling it well
or just hasn't accepted it yet.
- She prays a lot.
- Yes.
I don't know. Maybe it helps?
Yeah. that's... That was
always the one thing about na
that I just couldn't stand.
the whole giving yourself
up to a higher power.
If there were ever proof that
no one's looking out for us.
it's here.
Hey.
We don't see a lot of you in here.
I-I-I won't be long.
Well. Sara. you can
stay as long as you like.
I-I think it's really nice
that you reopened the diner.
Well. I thought it'd be a
good way to keep busy.
You used to work here. right?
Feels like a long time ago now.
Well. if you ever want to come back.
I could use the help.
Look. I wasn't here when
you... Did what you did.
But who you've become
while I've known you?
That girl deserves a place.
Think about it.
Bakta?
Yeah?
Do you mind dumping that out for me?
Sure.
Shit.
Wait. marielle. wait up! Wait!
What's happening?
I don't... I don't know.
I'm coming!
Don't move. okay?
Stay right where you are.
Where does it hurt?
- My... my arm.
- Okay.
Let me see. Okay. look at me.
Take a deep breath. What happened?
I was standing by the edge
and then it felt like
something pushed me.
Okay. is there anywhere else?
No.
Hey. We done here?
No. not quite.
Because Fatima's
making a mud monster?
Sorry. I was eavesdropping.
I don't know if I should
be up there stopping her
or if I should be up there helping her.
You know. if it wasn't for what
happened to me and Tabitha.
everything we remembered...
I never would've even considered
taking those mushrooms.
What's your point?
My point... Is something changed.
Made me realize I had
to do something drastic
before it was too late.
even if everyone around
me thought I was insane.
So maybe the question
you need to ask Fatima
isn't why she's making that thing.
Maybe the question you need
to ask is why she's making it now.
Jesus.
These things are
even creepier in person.
Jade said they're to ward off evil spirits.
Heh. Well. that's...
Comforting. I suppose.
Okay. the more food
we collect before dark.
the earlier we leave in the morning.
So. drop your bags. Let's go.
Mom. we need to get him to the lake.
Come on. Let's go.
Julie?
I'm up here!
Got what you asked for.
Got the...
What are you doing?
Last time I tried this.
one of those things
grabbed me by the hair.
That's not gonna happen again.
Okay.
Ready?
Okay. so. to create a bookmark.
fold up a piece of paper.
and I bring it with me when I story walk.
Wherever I end up in the
past. whatever "chapter" I'm in.
I just draw the symbol on the paper
and leave it there.
If this works. when you pull me out.
the symbol that I drew in the past
will also be here on
the paper in the present.
You've been waiting to do that
since we left town. haven't you?
I have. yeah.
Okay.
Let's say this thing works.
let's say you make it out of this thing
with a functioning bookmark.
how does that help us?
Because. from that point forward.
whatever point in the story I want to visit.
like the chapter right
before my father was killed...
I write it here in the folds.
fold it back up. cross the threshold.
and that's where the
bookmark'll take me.
You're asking me to watch
you have another seizure.
I'm asking you for five seconds.
I draw the symbol. you pull me out.
Randall. if this works.
this changes everything.
Please.
Five seconds.
Come on.
Be careful.
Yeah.
Hey. Hey. hey. hey. hey.
Hey. hey. It's me.
It's me. It's me. You're okay.
You're okay. You're okay.
No!
Fuck!
It didn't work! It didn't fucking work!
Victor. come on.
They're in there.
He came in a car just like the rest of us.
I thought his yellow suit was funny.
And we thought he
was just like us. We...
We brought him in. and
we made him our friend.
But he wasn't like us.
When everyone died.
when I found mom out by
the bottle tree. I saw him.
He was eating her.
God...
So. it's definitely broken.
But we're gonna wait for
the swelling to go down
before we reset the bone.
- Okay.
- Okay?
I know all of this is a little scary.
It's just another test. It's why we're here.
God is testing us and allowing
us to prove our faith in him.
Yeah.
I know this all sounds silly to you.
No. No. it doesn't.
Do you know the story of Abraham?
No. No. I don't.
He was a simple man.
with an unshakeable
faith and obedience to god.
One day. god tested Abraham.
ordering him to kill his only son.
as a way to prove his faith.
But at the last moment. god intervened
and offered a ram to
be sacrificed instead.
You see.
god never intended for
Abraham to kill his son.
He simply needed to know if he would.
Hey.
Okay if Kenny joins us?
Look. I know how strange
this must seem. guys. but...
Fatima. I need to know
why you're doing this.
I told you why I'm doing this.
Why are you doing it now?
Whatever it is. I need
you to tell me. Please.
Don't let this place make
you afraid to talk to me.
I still feel it.
That thing I carried
inside me. I still feel it.
- Okay.
- Feel it how?
Like we're connected.
Part of me feels what he feels.
Okay. And this thing that
you're making. it's gonna...
What? Break the connection?
It goes both ways.
Right.
He feels what I'm feeling. too.
He feels how afraid I am. He likes it.
But making this. it makes me feel strong.
It makes me feel less afraid.
Okay.
It's the only way I know to fight back.
Right.
Jesus.
Making that thing. you
think it could actually help?
I don't know.
But. you know. all things considered.
having a champion in our corner -
not the worst thing in the world right now.
I'll. spread the word... Good.
To give her some space.
Keep everyone out of that room.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Boyd?
We gotta go.
Now.
Boyd. what's wrong?
Just gimme a minute.
What?
No. it's...
All right. new category:
Saturday morning
cartoons. Okay. I'll go first.
The jet sons.
Ooh!
The flintstones.
Nice.
Okay?
Ready?
Okay. Let's do it.
Roger. you good?
What the fuck?
Mom?
Fuck.